hey youtube this is my emerson CQC 16
Bushman folding knife this is the very
first emerson that i ever purchased and
you wouldn't believe what the prices
were like back in the day actually got
this for a hundred and sixty dollars
I've showed this knife in several videos
but I realized I never actually did a
full formal review of it and it is well
it still is one of my favorite emerson
designs right so here is your full
detailed review it's got g10 handle
scales see lanyard hole there Emerson's
flathead pivot screw for easy
maintenance in the field and you see the
patented Emerson wave feature now the
wait on this knife five point eight
ounces alright so it is a sturdy knife
and here's the clip side of the knife
all right as I said g10 handle scales
stone washed liners let's take a look at
the the construction spine of the knife
see semi-open construction backspace are
there and the stop in there see the
jumping right there pocket clip how does
it open well as the thumb disc can also
waive it open from the pocket opens very
smoothly you'll see the lock up boom
there it is note the deep finger groove
the ergonomics on Emerson's alright
which is uh you know what many people
cite as one of their favorite things
about Emerson's the feel in the hand the
wave can serve as a thumb ramp as well
and that blade it's a winner I had a
close up of that blade it's got the
Darth Vader black coating modified Bowie
of all the buoys Emerson has this one
the clipped out part portion goes back
I can be farthest right that's why it's
modified because the clipped out portion
here it goes back you know half the
length of the blade the blade length by
my measurement is 3.6 inches as you can
see it's a partial flat grind now
according to Emerson this was designed
by a big game hunter specifically as a
folding knife for skinning and cleaning
of game but also Emerson has a
reputation for designing military knives
tactical knives for uniform
professionals and the same qualities
that make it great for breaking down
large mammals make it quite good for
emergency use you know as basically a
weapon of war I'll close the close-range
weapon because the buoy very pointed
right and this will slice quite well and
notice they've even continued the
jumping up the whole way thumb ramp is
for a fencing type thrust and what's
this jumping for that's actually for the
Filipino grip for other other means of
ending the enemy combatant and another
great thing about this knife the blade
length it's an intermediate length three
point six inches which to me means that
unlike some other Emerson models this is
a reasonable length for even civilians
to carry it's just an everyday utility
cutting tool then just to illustrate
that a little bit more here I have CQ 16
CQC 16 in between my largest Emerson
that is the CQC eight super and my
smallest Emerson that is the Emerson
traveler so you see it's right in the
middle of that sweet spot which allows
it to be both just a regular everyday
cutting
but also to go tactical so if you're
looking to try and emerson i would
recommend this model because it can be
everything it can be a hunter's knife
you know a skinner and out outdoor
utility folder it can be as soldiers
back up and our tactical blade but it's
yet small enough to just be an everyday
cutting tool I mean basically whether
you're in a rural area a city a suburb
or a war zone it's just that it's just
so multitask so multi-purpose it can
basically do it all alright so I hope
you enjoyed seeing my very first Emerson
and still one of my favorite Emerson
designs stay tuned for more vids I'm out